---

layout: post

title: A.I. Intro - Agent

date: 2022-10-07 18:00:00

description: Concepts and understanding of Artificial Inteligence Agent

tags: WIL

categories: AI

toc:
  sidebar: left

---

Most A.I. problems will exhibit the following three characteristics
- tend to be large
- computationally complex and cannot be solved by a straightforward algorithm
- tend to require a significant amount of human expertise to be solved

# Interlligent (Autonomous) Agent
## Agent
An agent is just <U>something that acts</U> (from the Latin agere, todo)
"Acting" to be
- autonomous
- situated in some environment (that could be really complex)
- adaptive
- creative and goal-oriented

### Rational Agent
One that acts so as <U>to achieve the best outcome</U>, or when there is unvertainty, <U>the best expected outcome.</U>

AI is focused on the <U>study and construction of agents that do the right thing.</U>

<div class="row mt-3">
<div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/AI_agent.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
</div>
</div>
An agent is anything that can be viewed as perceiving its environment through sensors and acting upon that environment through actuators.

- Percept: content / information that agent's sensors are perceiving / capturing **currently**
- Percept Sequence: a <U>complete history of everything that agent has ever perceived</U>.
	- any practical issues that you can see here?
	- what can a percept sequence be used for?


Agent's choice of action / decision at any given moment.
- **CAN** depend on:
	- built-in knowledge
	- entire percept ssequence
- **CANNOT** depend anything it hasn't perceived

Agent's action **CAN** change the <U>environment state</U>

### Agent Function / Program
- Specifying an action choice for every possible percept sequence would define an agent
- Action <-> percept sequence mapping is the agent function
- Agent <U>function</U> describes agent <U>behavior</U>
- Agent <U>Function</U> is an <U>abstract concept</U>
- Agent <U>program implements</U> agent function

### Actions have consequences
- An agent can act upon its environment, but **how do we know if the end result is "right"?**
- After all, **actions have consequences**: either good or bad.
- Recall that **agent actions change the environment state**
- If state changes are desirable, and agent performs well.
- performance measure evaluates state changes.
	-> It is better to **design performance measures according to what one actually want to be achieved <U>in the environment</U>,** rather than according to how one thinks the agent should behave.
    -> Warning: If it is difficult to specify the performance measure, agents may end up optimizing a wrong objective. Handle uncertainty well in such cases.
    
### Example of Agent
- A **software agent** has Keystrokes, file contents, received network packages which act as sensors and displays on the screen, files, and sent network packets acting as actuators.
- A Human-agent has eyes, ears, and other organs which act as sensors, and hands, legs, mouth, and other body parts act as actuators.
- A **Robotic agent** has Cameras and infrared range finders which act as sensors and various motors act as actuators.
<div class="row mt-3">
<div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/AI_agent_example.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
</div>
</div>

## Rationality
Rational decisions at the moment depend on:
- The **performance measure** that defines success criteria
- The agent's **prior knowlege** of the environment
- The **actions** that the agent can perform
- The agent's **percept sequence** so far

### Rational Agent
-> **For each possible percept sequence,** a rational agent shoud **select an action that is <U>expected</U> to maximize its performance measure,** given the **evidence provided by the percept sequence and** whatever **built-in knowledge** the agent has.
A rational agent could be anything that makes decisions as a person, firm, machine, or software. It carries out an action with the best outcome after considering past and current percepts (agent's perceptual inputs at a given instance).
To determine the rational agent, we need to say what the performance measure is, what is known about the environment, and what sensors and actuators the agent has.

### Rationality in Reality
- An omniscient agent will ALWAYS know the final outcome of its action. Impossible in reality. That would be perfection.
- Rationality maximizes what is EXPECTED to happen
- Perfection maximizes what WILL happen
- Performance can be improved by **information gathering and learning**

# Reference
- Illinois Institue of Technology CS480 (Intro Artificial Inteligence) Fall 2022 prof. Jacek Dzilkowski
- Agents in Artificial Intelligence. (2018, January 28). GeeksforGeeks. <a href="https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/agents-artificial-intelligence/?ref=lbp">geeksforgeeks</a>




